# Foodmart Sales Performance Analysis #

## 1. Objective
This project aims to visualize and analyze the sales data from January 1997 to December 1998 for a food retailer's retail store channel. The objective is to identify sales trends and uncover actionable insights to enhance business performance.

## 2. Tools used
One tools was used, Power BI:
* Power BI: Employed for calculating metrics using DAX and visualizing data to derive actionable insights.

## 3. Key findings
### Page 1: Overview
* Business performance in 1997 is doubled compared to 1998, with strong positive year-over-year (YoY) growth rates 212,18%.
* Average prices fluctuate over time with January 1998 being the peak of this period. However, the overall trend is positive over time, which indicates a higher willingness to pay.  

### Page 2: Store
* All stores show a low average return rate of 0.99%.
* Total square feet usage is less than 70%, which requires further space utilization. 
* Suppermarket (8 stores) are the primary revenue contributors, accounting for 44,75% of total business. Besides, Deluxe Suppermarket stores (6 stores) contribute 38% to total revenue. 
* Notable performers with high revenue per square meter include stores 13 and 17.
* Some stores, such as 18, despite having a high square feet usage (80%), show low revenue contribution, requiring further investigation.
* Gourmet supermarket shows a high selling rate but low return rate, which is a positive indicators, contrast to Suppermarket.

### Page 3: Product
* 35% of the product base is low fat and a half of it can be recycled.
* Hermanos items consistently rank as the top contributors to total revenue throughout the analyzed period.

### Page 4: Customer 
* Most of the customer base is located in USA with a centralized distribution on the Western side.
* Over a half of the revenue is generated by customers with less than 30K yearly income, which helps company to determine the target audience.
* Besides, Bronze member card accounts for 55% of the total revenue contribution.
* Families having 1 - 4 childrens tend to buy more than the other types.
